---
layout: post
title: Summer 2020 Update
date: 2020-04-24 10:40:21.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- notes
- public
- release
- webservice
tags:
- notes
- public
- release
- webservice
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '280'
  _edit_last: '1'
  _aioseop_description: The Summer 2020 update is here. Article Reader Customisation,
    Youtube RSS Feeds, iPadOS Cursor Support and much more in the new 2020 Summer
    update.
author:
  login: user
  email: user@example.com
  display_name: Nikhil
  first_name: Nikhil
  last_name: Nigade
permalink: "/blog/2020/04/24/summer-2020-update/"
---
<p>The Summer 2020 update is here. If you feel generous and have a couple of minutes, please leave a review on the App Store. It makes a huge difference for me. Thank you in advance. Here’s the full change log:</p>
<h2>New</h2>
<ul>
<li>Support for Mouse/Pointer Interactions on iPadOS 13.4.</li>
<li>New Custom Feed: Today. All articles from the day, read and unread. Sort by your own preference.</li>
<li>Now add Youtube Channel RSS Feeds directly from the Share Extension.</li>
<li>Article Reader Customisation: You can now customise your reading experience based on your personal preferences. Set line heights, font sizes and individual fonts for paragraphs and headings.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Improvements</h2>
<ul>
<li>Improvements for handling Youtube URLs inside the app when adding a new channel feed.</li>
<li>Push Notifications will now show richer previews if you open them in context.</li>
<li>Show refresh control animation when the app loads and is loading Feeds data from the API.</li>
<li>GIFs will now show the first frame if the Image Proxy is enabled.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Fixes</h2>
<ul>
<li>Fixed incorrect paragraph line-spacing calculation with the selected value for font size.</li>
<li>Fixed an issue where opening a push notification on iPads would open them in the primary column.</li>
<li>When you tap on a push notification while another article is open from a Feed, the Feed now correctly deselects the active article.</li>
<li>When you tap on a push notification, the app sets up correctly on the iPad. If you tap on a Feed after this, it no longer dismisses the previously opened Article.</li>
<li>Fixed a crash when creating a new Folder for the first time.</li>
<li>Fixed GIF playback.</li>
<li>Fixed an issue where an article would remain marked as Read even after opening it.</li>
<li>Fixed font sizes for the Feed description on iPads.</li>
<li>Fixed a type bug on the iPad where the font sizes were comically large for titles.</li>
</ul>
