---
layout: post
title: May 2022-2 Release
date: 2022-05-18 07:53:09.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- notes
- public
- release
tags:
- notes
- public
- release
meta: {}
author:
  login: user
  email: user@example.com
  display_name: Nikhil
  first_name: Nikhil
  last_name: Nigade
permalink: "/blog/2022/05/18/may-2022-2-release/"
---
<p>The May release of Elytra focuses on clearing up old code and files from Elytra’s codebase. A lot is changing under the hood, but very little is changing visually in the app.</p>
<p>This is to prime the codebase for WWDC 2022 which will bring in new OS versions and features to the app.</p>
<hr />
<p>As <strong>WWDC</strong> approaches, we&#8217;ll be seeing a lot of articles coming from the press surrounding the event. RSS feeds are a great way to follow this news as it happens.</p>
<p>So to get you setup, first 1000 users can get their first three months at a discounted price using the code: <code>EYTWWDC22</code> for the monthly subscription, and <code>EYYWWDC22</code> for the yearly subscription.</p>
<p>These codes will be valid till the 12th of June, 2022, 12:00AM GMT.</p>
<hr />
<p>If you feel generous and have a couple of minutes, please <a href="https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1433266971?action=write-review">leave a review on the App Store</a>. It makes a huge difference for me. Thank you in advance.</p>
<h2 id="new">New</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>New User Interface and manager for OPML Imports</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="#new">New</a> marking articles as read now happens in the background. The operations complete instantly and whenever your device has an opportunity to update this with the API, it&#8217;ll make an attempt. If you&#8217;re offline, it&#8217;ll try the next time you&#8217;re online.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="fixes">Fixes</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Fixed marking read blocking the UI in some cases.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed some data-race bugs.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>[iOS] Fixed Safari extension showing blank feed items.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>[iOS] Fixed Safari extension showing the UI when only a single feed is identified. It now directly opens the app with that URL instead.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed a bug where image re-downloads would fail immediately when retrying with the image proxy.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed push tokens not being synced with the server when push notifications are already authorized.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed full re-sync causing the app to crash instantly.</p>
</li>
</ul>
