---
layout: post
title: April 2022 Release
date: 2022-04-29 22:22:37.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- notes
- public
- release
tags:
- notes
- public
- release
meta: {}
author:
  login: user
  email: user@example.com
  display_name: Nikhil
  first_name: Nikhil
  last_name: Nigade
permalink: "/blog/2022/04/29/april-2022-release/"
---
<p>The April release of Elytra focuses on clearing up old code and files from Elytra’s codebase. A lot is changing under the hood, but very little is changing visually in the app.</p>
<p>This is to prime the codebase for WWDC 2022 which will bring in new OS versions and features to the app.</p>
<p>If you feel generous and have a couple of minutes, please <a href="https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1433266971?action=write-review">leave a review on the App Store</a>. It makes a huge difference for me. Thank you in advance.</p>
<h2 id="new">New</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Spotlight integration for articles.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Re-enabled feeds indexing for Spotlight.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="improvements">Improvements</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Improved logging system</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Sharing logs is now faster</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Improved mini-audio player reactiveness.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When contacting support, logs are automatically attached to the email.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When no email accounts are setup, Elytra will now let you share the debug information and logs through the share sheet.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>macOS users can view the app logs now. Help (Menu) &gt; View Logs</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="fixes">Fixes</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Fixed a few random crashes caused by the previous available SDK.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed a regression where the blog label was not tappable in the article reader.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed a bug with updating selected state of article in the list on iPadOS/macOS.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed localisation, Voice Over and some accessibility tokens on the article switcher and helper buttons.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Fixed importing OPML files not correctly parsing unencoded html entities in feed titles.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="others">Others</h3>
<ul>
<li>Updated attributions of 3rd party libraries.</li>
</ul>
