---
layout: post
title: March 2022 Update
date: 2022-03-30 10:15:43.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- macOS
- notes
- public
- release
tags:
- appstore
- feed
- ios
- ipados
- macOS
- reader
- rss
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
author:
  login: user
  email: user@example.com
  display_name: Nikhil
  first_name: Nikhil
  last_name: Nigade
permalink: "/blog/2022/03/30/march-2022-update/"
---
<p>The first release of March, 2022 is here and includes a variety of improvements and bug fixes.</p>
<p>The is the first release to introduce <a href="https://blog.elytra.app/2022/03/30/introducing-neptune/">Neptune</a>, Elytra’s own full-text extractor based on modern technologies.</p>
<p>If you feel generous and have a couple of minutes, please leave a review on the App Store. It makes a huge difference for me. Thank you in advance.</p>
<p>Here’s what’s new and changed in v2022.03.0:</p>
<h2 id="new">New</h2>
<ul>
<li>The app now uses <a href="https://blog.elytra.app/2022/03/30/introducing-neptune/"><strong>Neptune</strong></a>, a new full-text extractor, for fetching full-text content for articles.</li>
<li>[macOS] Added Read and Bookmark buttons to the toolbar.</li>
<li>You can now import and export your feed settings.</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="fixes">Fixes</h2>
<ul>
<li>Fixed articles rendering an image caption again as a normal paragraph.</li>
<li>Fixed an accessibility bug where large bodies of text would not be picked up by VoiceOver.</li>
<li>Fixed an accessibility bug where image captions would sometimes skip punctuations when using VoiceOver.</li>
<li>Fixed a crash that would sometimes occur when opening an article in its own window.</li>
<li>Fixed fetching full-text and reloading full-text content.</li>
<li>Fixed discarding loaded full-text content.</li>
<li>Fixed a critical issue where the app would start into an invalid state after setting up the account.</li>
<li>Fixed a crash which would sometimes occur when opening an article in the browser.</li>
<li>Fixed a crash which would sometimes occur when setting up an article.</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="notes">Notes</h4>
<p>If you see continous errors when fetching information about subscriptions, purchasing or restoring: please check if you have a custom DNS blocker enabled on your device. Some of these prevent connections to the service Elytra now uses to manage subscriptions. You may have to unblock <code>api.revenuecat.com</code> in your DNS blocker settings to get things to work.</p>
