---
layout: post
title: April 2024.4.1 Release
date: 2024-04-23 08:00:00+05:30
type: post
categories:
- iOS
- macOS
- notes
- public
- release
permalink: "/blog/2024/04/23/v2024-4-1-for-ios-and-macos/"
---

The April 2024 release brings a improvements and bug fixes to both the iOS and mac apps.

If you feel generous and have a couple of minutes, please leave a [review on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1433266971?action=write-review). It makes a huge difference for me. Thank you in advance.

The v2024.4.1 release brings further improvements and bug fixes to the April '24 release.

- Fixed bug where local feed preferences were sometimes overwritten during sync.

- Fixed a bug where the app would sometimes crash when syncing the background. 

- `iOS`: Fixed a bug where the sync progress bar would immediately dismiss after sync completed. It now shows the completed state for a second before resetting its state. 

- `iOS`: Fixed opening article in standalone window on iPadOS

- `macOS`: Fixed show article covers from enclosures, matches iOS/iPadOS app now

#### v2024.4.0 Release Notes

- Fixed a crashing bug that would sometimes occur when adding a new feed.

- Fixed syncing of feed updates and changes across devices.

- Improved sync: changes to feeds and folders are now picked up before syncing articles begins. 

- Fixed a bug where article enclosures would not get saved properly to disk. 

- Fixed a bug where articles with no explict cover image assigned, would show no cover image, if it had an image enclosure. 

- Fixed a bug where article enclosures without any articles would linger around consuming disk space. These are now cleaned up when the app starts. 

- `iOS`: Fixed split view behaviour on iPads

---

The notaried build for this release is also available to download from [Github](https://github.com/ElytraApp/Elytra/releases/latest).